agent_v5/README.md, before:

# Agent V5 - Complete Claude Code SDK Replacement

✅ **Status: COMPLETE - All tests passing (88/89)**

## Summary

Agent V5 completely replaces the Claude Code SDK dependency with a custom implementation while maintaining 100% functionality. All tools, MCP integration, and agentic loops work identically to the original.

---

## What Was Built

### 1. **Base Tool Framework**
- `BaseTool` - Abstract base class for all tools
- `ToolRegistry` - Central tool management and execution
- 8 comprehensive tests ✅

### 2. **Core Tools** (7 tools total)
Each tool has comprehensive tests (7-10 tests per tool):

| Tool | Purpose | Tests | Status |
|------|---------|-------|--------|
| **Bash** | Execute shell commands | 10 tests | ✅ |
| **Read** | Read files with line numbers | 9 tests | ✅ |
| **Write** | Create/overwrite files | 8 tests | ✅ |
| **Edit** | Exact string replacement | 7 tests | ✅ |
| **Glob** | File pattern matching | 5 tests, 1 skip | ✅ |
| **Grep** | Search with regex (ripgrep) | 10 tests | ✅ |
| **TodoWrite** | Task list management | 8 tests | ✅ |

**Total Tool Tests: 57 tests ✅**

### 3. **MCP Tool Proxy**
- Wraps MCP server tools (e.g., BigQuery)
- Converts MCP schema → Anthropic schema
- Handles list and string content formats
- 7 comprehensive tests ✅

### 4. **ResearchAgent**
- Complete agentic loop with streaming
- Conversation history management
- Tool execution via registry
- Uses Anthropic SDK directly
- 8 tests with **real API calls** ✅

### 5. **End-to-End Tests**
- BigQuery MCP integration
- Full research workflows
- Workspace persistence
- Error handling
- Python script creation/execution
- Complete pipeline tests
- 8 comprehensive e2e tests with **real API calls** ✅

### 6. **Modal Integration**
- `agent_v5/main.py` - Complete replacement for agent_v4
- No `claude-agent-sdk` dependency
- Same Modal structure (volumes, sessions)
- Research engineer system prompt
- Ready for deployment

---

## Test Results

```
88 passed, 1 skipped in 87.63s

Breakdown:
- Base framework: 8 tests ✅
- Bash tool: 10 tests ✅
- Read tool: 9 tests ✅
- Write tool: 8 tests ✅
- Edit tool: 7 tests ✅
- Glob tool: 5 tests ✅, 1 skipped (brace expansion not supported)
- Grep tool: 10 tests ✅
- TodoWrite tool: 8 tests ✅
- MCP proxy: 7 tests ✅
- ResearchAgent: 8 tests ✅ (with real API)
- End-to-end: 8 tests ✅ (with real API)
```

**Real API Tests:** 16 tests make actual Anthropic API calls to verify streaming, tool execution, and complete workflows.

---

## Key Differences from Agent V4

| Aspect | Agent V4 (Claude SDK) | Agent V5 (Custom) |
|--------|----------------------|-------------------|
| **Dependencies** | `claude-agent-sdk` | `anthropic` only |
| **Tools** | SDK-provided | Custom implementations |
| **MCP Integration** | `create_sdk_mcp_server` | `MCPToolProxy` |
| **Agent Loop** | `ClaudeSDKClient` | `ResearchAgent` |
| **Streaming** | SDK's async streaming | Direct Anthropic SDK |
| **Tests** | None | 88 comprehensive tests |
| **System Prompt** | Technical | Research-focused |

---

## File Structure

```
agent_v5/
├── __init__.py
├── README.md                    # This file
├── IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md       # Detailed implementation plan
├── cli.py                       # Local CLI (run without Modal)
├── main.py                      # Modal deployment (replaces agent_v4)
├── agent.py                     # ResearchAgent class
├── tools/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── base.py                  # BaseTool abstract class
│   ├── registry.py              # ToolRegistry
│   ├── bash.py                  # Bash tool
│   ├── read.py                  # Read tool
│   ├── write.py                 # Write tool
│   ├── edit.py                  # Edit tool
│   ├── glob.py                  # Glob tool
│   ├── grep.py                  # Grep tool (uses ripgrep)
│   ├── todo.py                  # TodoWrite tool
│   └── mcp_proxy.py             # MCP tool proxy
└── tests/
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── test_base.py             # Base framework tests (8)
    ├── test_bash.py             # Bash tool tests (10)
    ├── test_read.py             # Read tool tests (9)
    ├── test_write.py            # Write tool tests (8)
    ├── test_edit.py             # Edit tool tests (7)
    ├── test_glob.py             # Glob tool tests (6)
    ├── test_grep.py             # Grep tool tests (10)
    ├── test_todo.py             # TodoWrite tool tests (8)
    ├── test_mcp_proxy.py        # MCP proxy tests (7)
    ├── test_agent.py            # ResearchAgent tests (8, real API)
    └── test_e2e.py              # End-to-end tests (8, real API)
```

---

## Quick Start

### Run Locally (Recommended First)

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
pip install anthropic google-cloud-bigquery polars pyarrow python-dotenv

# 2. Set environment variables in .env:
# ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
# GCP_PROJECT=your-project (optional)
# GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_JSON={"type":"service_account",...} (optional)

# 3. Run the local CLI
python agent_v5/cli.py
```

**Example interaction:**
```
🤖 Agent V5 - Research Engineer (Local CLI)
Session: abc-123
Workspace: ./workspace/abc-123
BigQuery: ✅ Enabled

You: Create a file called test.txt with "Hello World"
⏳ Processing...

Agent:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'll create that file for you.

🔧 [Tool: Write]
📥 Input: {
  "file_path": "test.txt",
  "content": "Hello World"
}
📤 Output:
File created successfully at: ./workspace/abc-123/test.txt
----------------------------------------

Done! I've created the file test.txt with "Hello World".
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You: Query BigQuery for top 5 HUMIRA prescribers in CA and save to humira.csv
⏳ Processing...

Agent:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'll query the BigQuery database for the top HUMIRA prescribers in California.

🔧 [Tool: mcp__bigquery__bigquery_query]
📥 Input: {
  "sql": "SELECT PRESCRIBER_NPI_NBR, COUNT(*) as rx_count FROM `unique-bonbon-472921-q8.Claims.rx_claims` WHERE NDC_DRUG_NM = 'HUMIRA' AND PRESCRIBER_NPI_STATE_CD = 'CA' GROUP BY PRESCRIBER_NPI_NBR ORDER BY rx_count DESC LIMIT 5",
  "dataset_name": "humira"
}
📤 Output:
Saved 5 rows to humira.csv

     PRESCRIBER_NPI_NBR  rx_count
0        1234567890          150
1        0987654321          120
2        1111111111          100
...
----------------------------------------

Great! I've saved the results to humira.csv. Let me read it back to confirm.

🔧 [Tool: Read]
📥 Input: {
  "file_path": "humira.csv"
}
📤 Output:
     1→PRESCRIBER_NPI_NBR,rx_count
     2→1234567890,150
     3→0987654321,120
     4→1111111111,100
...
----------------------------------------

Perfect! The top 5 HUMIRA prescribers in California have been saved to humira.csv.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

**Local CLI vs Modal:**
- **Local CLI (`cli.py`)**: Runs on your machine, workspace in `./workspace/`, great for testing
- **Modal (`main.py`)**: Runs in sandboxed containers, workspace in Modal volumes, production ready

---

## Deployment

### Run Tests
```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install anthropic google-cloud-bigquery polars pyarrow pytest pytest-asyncio

# Run all tests
pytest agent_v5/tests/ -v

# Run specific test suite
pytest agent_v5/tests/test_agent.py -v  # Agent tests (requires ANTHROPIC_API_KEY)
pytest agent_v5/tests/test_e2e.py -v    # E2E tests (requires ANTHROPIC_API_KEY)
```

### Deploy to Modal
```bash
# Set environment variables in .env:
# ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
# GCP_PROJECT=your-project
# GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_JSON={"type":"service_account",...}

# Deploy
modal deploy agent_v5/main.py

# Or run interactively
modal run agent_v5/main.py
```

---

## Known Limitations

1. **Brace Expansion**: Python's `glob` doesn't support `*.{py,txt}` patterns (use `*_file.py` instead)
2. **No NotebookEdit**: Jupyter notebook editing not implemented (defer to future)
3. **No WebFetch/WebSearch**: Not implemented (defer to future)
4. **No Task/Agent Tool**: Complex delegation not implemented (defer to future)

---

## Next Steps

1. ✅ **All implementation complete**
2. ✅ **All tests passing**
3. **Deploy to Modal**: `modal deploy agent_v5/main.py`
4. **Test in production**: Run research queries with BigQuery
5. **Monitor**: Check performance vs agent_v4
6. **Migrate**: Switch production traffic from agent_v4 → agent_v5

---

## Verification Checklist

- ✅ Base tool framework working
- ✅ All 7 core tools implemented and tested
- ✅ MCP tool proxy working with BigQuery
- ✅ ResearchAgent streaming correctly
- ✅ Tool execution loop working
- ✅ Conversation history maintained
- ✅ Workspace persistence working
- ✅ Error handling graceful
- ✅ Real API tests passing
- ✅ End-to-end workflows complete
- ✅ Modal integration ready
- ✅ No Claude Code SDK dependency
- ✅ 88/89 tests passing

---

## Commit History

1. `docs: create detailed implementation plan for agent v5`
2. `feat: implement base tool framework with comprehensive tests`
3. `feat: implement Bash tool with comprehensive tests`
4. `feat: implement Read tool with comprehensive tests`
5. `feat: implement Write tool with comprehensive tests`
6. `feat: implement Edit tool with comprehensive tests`
7. `feat: implement Glob tool with comprehensive tests`
8. `feat: implement Grep tool with comprehensive tests`
9. `feat: implement TodoWrite tool with comprehensive tests`
10. `feat: implement MCP tool proxy with comprehensive tests`
11. `feat: implement ResearchAgent with comprehensive real API tests`
12. `feat: add comprehensive end-to-end tests with BigQuery MCP`
13. `feat: create agent_v5 main.py - complete Claude Code SDK replacement`

**Total: 13 commits, every increment tested and working**

---

## Success Metrics

✅ **No Claude Code SDK dependency** - Uses only `anthropic` package
✅ **100% feature parity** - All agent_v4 capabilities preserved
✅ **Comprehensive testing** - 88 tests covering all functionality
✅ **Real API validation** - 16 tests use actual Anthropic API
✅ **Production ready** - Modal integration complete
✅ **Research-focused** - System prompt adapted for non-technical users

**Agent V5 is production-ready and can replace Agent V4 immediately.**

Commit message:

changed planning model to gpt5

agent_v5/README.md, after:

# Agent V5 - Complete Claude Code SDK Replacement

✅ **Status: COMPLETE - All tests passing (88/89)**

## Summary

Agent V5 completely replaces the Claude Code SDK dependency with a custom implementation while maintaining 100% functionality. All tools, MCP integration, and agentic loops work identically to the original.

**NEW:** Agent V5 now supports using different models for planning vs execution. Use OpenAI's o3-mini or o1 for planning while Claude executes the plan. See [PLANNING_MODELS.md](PLANNING_MODELS.md) for details.

---

## What Was Built

### 1. **Base Tool Framework**
- `BaseTool` - Abstract base class for all tools
- `ToolRegistry` - Central tool management and execution
- 8 comprehensive tests ✅

### 2. **Core Tools** (7 tools total)
Each tool has comprehensive tests (7-10 tests per tool):

| Tool | Purpose | Tests | Status |
|------|---------|-------|--------|
| **Bash** | Execute shell commands | 10 tests | ✅ |
| **Read** | Read files with line numbers | 9 tests | ✅ |
| **Write** | Create/overwrite files | 8 tests | ✅ |
| **Edit** | Exact string replacement | 7 tests | ✅ |
| **Glob** | File pattern matching | 5 tests, 1 skip | ✅ |
| **Grep** | Search with regex (ripgrep) | 10 tests | ✅ |
| **TodoWrite** | Task list management | 8 tests | ✅ |

**Total Tool Tests: 57 tests ✅**

### 3. **MCP Tool Proxy**
- Wraps MCP server tools (e.g., BigQuery)
- Converts MCP schema → Anthropic schema
- Handles list and string content formats
- 7 comprehensive tests ✅

### 4. **ResearchAgent**
- Complete agentic loop with streaming
- Conversation history management
- Tool execution via registry
- Uses Anthropic SDK directly
- 8 tests with **real API calls** ✅

### 5. **End-to-End Tests**
- BigQuery MCP integration
- Full research workflows
- Workspace persistence
- Error handling
- Python script creation/execution
- Complete pipeline tests
- 8 comprehensive e2e tests with **real API calls** ✅

### 6. **Modal Integration**
- `agent_v5/main.py` - Complete replacement for agent_v4
- No `claude-agent-sdk` dependency
- Same Modal structure (volumes, sessions)
- Research engineer system prompt
- Ready for deployment

---

## Test Results

```
88 passed, 1 skipped in 87.63s

Breakdown:
- Base framework: 8 tests ✅
- Bash tool: 10 tests ✅
- Read tool: 9 tests ✅
- Write tool: 8 tests ✅
- Edit tool: 7 tests ✅
- Glob tool: 5 tests ✅, 1 skipped (brace expansion not supported)
- Grep tool: 10 tests ✅
- TodoWrite tool: 8 tests ✅
- MCP proxy: 7 tests ✅
- ResearchAgent: 8 tests ✅ (with real API)
- End-to-end: 8 tests ✅ (with real API)
```

**Real API Tests:** 16 tests make actual Anthropic API calls to verify streaming, tool execution, and complete workflows.

---

## Key Differences from Agent V4

| Aspect | Agent V4 (Claude SDK) | Agent V5 (Custom) |
|--------|----------------------|-------------------|
| **Dependencies** | `claude-agent-sdk` | `anthropic` only |
| **Tools** | SDK-provided | Custom implementations |
| **MCP Integration** | `create_sdk_mcp_server` | `MCPToolProxy` |
| **Agent Loop** | `ClaudeSDKClient` | `ResearchAgent` |
| **Streaming** | SDK's async streaming | Direct Anthropic SDK |
| **Tests** | None | 88 comprehensive tests |
| **System Prompt** | Technical | Research-focused |

---

## File Structure

```
agent_v5/
├── __init__.py
├── README.md                    # This file
├── IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md       # Detailed implementation plan
├── cli.py                       # Local CLI (run without Modal)
├── main.py                      # Modal deployment (replaces agent_v4)
├── agent.py                     # ResearchAgent class
├── tools/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── base.py                  # BaseTool abstract class
│   ├── registry.py              # ToolRegistry
│   ├── bash.py                  # Bash tool
│   ├── read.py                  # Read tool
│   ├── write.py                 # Write tool
│   ├── edit.py                  # Edit tool
│   ├── glob.py                  # Glob tool
│   ├── grep.py                  # Grep tool (uses ripgrep)
│   ├── todo.py                  # TodoWrite tool
│   └── mcp_proxy.py             # MCP tool proxy
└── tests/
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── test_base.py             # Base framework tests (8)
    ├── test_bash.py             # Bash tool tests (10)
    ├── test_read.py             # Read tool tests (9)
    ├── test_write.py            # Write tool tests (8)
    ├── test_edit.py             # Edit tool tests (7)
    ├── test_glob.py             # Glob tool tests (6)
    ├── test_grep.py             # Grep tool tests (10)
    ├── test_todo.py             # TodoWrite tool tests (8)
    ├── test_mcp_proxy.py        # MCP proxy tests (7)
    ├── test_agent.py            # ResearchAgent tests (8, real API)
    └── test_e2e.py              # End-to-end tests (8, real API)
```

---

## Quick Start

### Run Locally (Recommended First)

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
pip install anthropic google-cloud-bigquery polars pyarrow python-dotenv

# 2. Set environment variables in .env:
# ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
# GCP_PROJECT=your-project (optional)
# GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_JSON={"type":"service_account",...} (optional)

# 3. Run the local CLI
python agent_v5/cli.py
```

**Example interaction:**
```
🤖 Agent V5 - Research Engineer (Local CLI)
Session: abc-123
Workspace: ./workspace/abc-123
BigQuery: ✅ Enabled

You: Create a file called test.txt with "Hello World"
⏳ Processing...

Agent:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'll create that file for you.

🔧 [Tool: Write]
📥 Input: {
  "file_path": "test.txt",
  "content": "Hello World"
}
📤 Output:
File created successfully at: ./workspace/abc-123/test.txt
----------------------------------------

Done! I've created the file test.txt with "Hello World".
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You: Query BigQuery for top 5 HUMIRA prescribers in CA and save to humira.csv
⏳ Processing...

Agent:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'll query the BigQuery database for the top HUMIRA prescribers in California.

🔧 [Tool: mcp__bigquery__bigquery_query]
📥 Input: {
  "sql": "SELECT PRESCRIBER_NPI_NBR, COUNT(*) as rx_count FROM `unique-bonbon-472921-q8.Claims.rx_claims` WHERE NDC_DRUG_NM = 'HUMIRA' AND PRESCRIBER_NPI_STATE_CD = 'CA' GROUP BY PRESCRIBER_NPI_NBR ORDER BY rx_count DESC LIMIT 5",
  "dataset_name": "humira"
}
📤 Output:
Saved 5 rows to humira.csv

     PRESCRIBER_NPI_NBR  rx_count
0        1234567890          150
1        0987654321          120
2        1111111111          100
...
----------------------------------------

Great! I've saved the results to humira.csv. Let me read it back to confirm.

🔧 [Tool: Read]
📥 Input: {
  "file_path": "humira.csv"
}
📤 Output:
     1→PRESCRIBER_NPI_NBR,rx_count
     2→1234567890,150
     3→0987654321,120
     4→1111111111,100
...
----------------------------------------

Perfect! The top 5 HUMIRA prescribers in California have been saved to humira.csv.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

**Local CLI vs Modal:**
- **Local CLI (`cli.py`)**: Runs on your machine, workspace in `./workspace/`, great for testing
- **Modal (`main.py`)**: Runs in sandboxed containers, workspace in Modal volumes, production ready

---

## Deployment

### Run Tests
```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install anthropic google-cloud-bigquery polars pyarrow pytest pytest-asyncio

# Run all tests
pytest agent_v5/tests/ -v

# Run specific test suite
pytest agent_v5/tests/test_agent.py -v  # Agent tests (requires ANTHROPIC_API_KEY)
pytest agent_v5/tests/test_e2e.py -v    # E2E tests (requires ANTHROPIC_API_KEY)
```

### Deploy to Modal
```bash
# Set environment variables in .env:
# ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
# GCP_PROJECT=your-project
# GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_JSON={"type":"service_account",...}

# Deploy
modal deploy agent_v5/main.py

# Or run interactively
modal run agent_v5/main.py
```

---

## Known Limitations

1. **Brace Expansion**: Python's `glob` doesn't support `*.{py,txt}` patterns (use `*_file.py` instead)
2. **No NotebookEdit**: Jupyter notebook editing not implemented (defer to future)
3. **No WebFetch/WebSearch**: Not implemented (defer to future)
4. **No Task/Agent Tool**: Complex delegation not implemented (defer to future)

---

## Next Steps

1. ✅ **All implementation complete**
2. ✅ **All tests passing**
3. **Deploy to Modal**: `modal deploy agent_v5/main.py`
4. **Test in production**: Run research queries with BigQuery
5. **Monitor**: Check performance vs agent_v4
6. **Migrate**: Switch production traffic from agent_v4 → agent_v5

---

## Verification Checklist

- ✅ Base tool framework working
- ✅ All 7 core tools implemented and tested
- ✅ MCP tool proxy working with BigQuery
- ✅ ResearchAgent streaming correctly
- ✅ Tool execution loop working
- ✅ Conversation history maintained
- ✅ Workspace persistence working
- ✅ Error handling graceful
- ✅ Real API tests passing
- ✅ End-to-end workflows complete
- ✅ Modal integration ready
- ✅ No Claude Code SDK dependency
- ✅ 88/89 tests passing

---

## Commit History

1. `docs: create detailed implementation plan for agent v5`
2. `feat: implement base tool framework with comprehensive tests`
3. `feat: implement Bash tool with comprehensive tests`
4. `feat: implement Read tool with comprehensive tests`
5. `feat: implement Write tool with comprehensive tests`
6. `feat: implement Edit tool with comprehensive tests`
7. `feat: implement Glob tool with comprehensive tests`
8. `feat: implement Grep tool with comprehensive tests`
9. `feat: implement TodoWrite tool with comprehensive tests`
10. `feat: implement MCP tool proxy with comprehensive tests`
11. `feat: implement ResearchAgent with comprehensive real API tests`
12. `feat: add comprehensive end-to-end tests with BigQuery MCP`
13. `feat: create agent_v5 main.py - complete Claude Code SDK replacement`

**Total: 13 commits, every increment tested and working**

---

## Success Metrics

✅ **No Claude Code SDK dependency** - Uses only `anthropic` package
✅ **100% feature parity** - All agent_v4 capabilities preserved
✅ **Comprehensive testing** - 88 tests covering all functionality
✅ **Real API validation** - 16 tests use actual Anthropic API
✅ **Production ready** - Modal integration complete
✅ **Research-focused** - System prompt adapted for non-technical users

**Agent V5 is production-ready and can replace Agent V4 immediately.**
